6 Newt English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.
I'm Beth.
And I'm Phil.
Phil, do you believe there's life on other planets?
Well, there's a lot of other planets, so yeah, I think there must be.
Yeah, I agree.
Well, it's a question that interests American Astro-Fys assist Adam Frank,
who discussed it with his colleague, Gavin Schmidt,
director of NASA's Institute for Space Studies.
Here, Adam recalls their conversation for BBC World Service program, Crowd Science.
We know that there's been no other civilization on Earth,
and he stopped to be in said, how do you know that?
And my judge has dropped down to the floor.
Adam's jaw dropped.
An idiom for when someone looked shocked and surprised.
Could there have been a technologically advanced civilization before us here on Earth?
It may sound weird, but this idea has a scientific name.
Here is Caroline Steele, presenter of BBC's Crowd Science to explain.
The Cylurian hypothesis proposes that if there was a technologically advanced civilization hundreds of millions of years ago,
we wouldn't be able to find traces of it.
A hypothesis is an idea which explains how something happens and can be tested to find out if it's correct.
In this episode, we'll be discussing the Cylurian hypothesis.
The idea that a technologically advanced civilization existed before us on Earth, but vanished without leaving a trace.
As usual, we'll be learning some useful new words and idioms,
and remember you'll find all the vocabulary on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com.
But first, I have a question for you, Phil.
Human civilization is thousands of years old, but the planet itself is much older.
So how old do scientists think the Earth is?
Is it A, 3.5 billion years?
B, 4.5 billion years?
Or C, 5.5 billion years?
I'm going to get C, 5.5 billion years.
Okay, well, we will find the answer out later in the program.
To believe a technologically advanced civilization existed on Earth, hundreds of millions of years ago,
most people would probably want evidence.
We have evidence about other species from the past, such as the dinosaurs from fossils.
The remains of prehistoric plants or animals that have been preserved in rock for a very long time.
But according to Adam Frank, fossils won't help prove the Cylurian hypothesis.
As he explains here to BBC World Service program, crowd science.
Most things are not fossilized.
It's only a tiny fraction of Earth's life that has ever become fossilized.
So imagine that you have a 10,000 year long civilization, which is a blink of the eye for geology.
That's too short to really create a lot of fossils.
Adam argues that only a tiny fraction, meaning a very small amount of life on Earth has turned into fossil.
In geological time, even a 10,000 year old civilization is the blink of an eye.
An idea meaning a very short period of time.
In other words, all the civilizations might have existed on Earth, but not for long enough to leave fossilized evidence.
However, not everyone is convinced by Adam's ideas.
Evidence of our own civilization, including plastics and man-made materials like concrete, is already being layered into the Earth's crust.
And these are going to last a very long time.
So surely a technologically advanced civilization from prehistory would have left similar marks.
Well, his Adam Frank again, answering these objections on BBC World Service program, crowd science.
What happens is somebody else will pick up on their work either affirming it and showing new evidence for it or pushing back on it.
As you get to like 20, 30, 40 papers, then you have a consensus.
You're like, okay, we've really, really looked at this. And now we don't.
Adam welcomes new evidence, even evidence which contradicts his ideas as part of the scientific method needed to prove a hypothesis right or wrong.
It's how scientists form a consensus, meaning a general agreement about the issue.
Personally, I think the idea of prehistoric civilizations on Earth is so mysterious.
It's okay to keep an open mind. Now, isn't it time you reveal the answer to your question, Beth?
I think it is. I asked you how old just scientists think the Earth is.
You said five and a half billion years and I'm afraid you were wrongful. It's four and a half billion years.
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned, starting with the idiom, my jaw dropped, which is used to say someone looks very shocked and surprised.
A hypothesis is a suggestion that's proposed to explain something, which can then be tested to see if it's true.
Fossils are the remains of prehistoric plants or animals that have been preserved in rock for a very long time.
A tiny fraction of something is a very small amount of it.
The idiom, the blink of an eye, means a very short period of time.
And finally, a consensus is a general agreement. Once again, our six minutes are up, but if you're keen for more, then head over to our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com, where you'll find a worksheet and a quiz for this episode.
See you again soon, but for now it's goodbye.
Goodbye.
Six-nuit English from BBCLearningEnglish.com